# Tree
This is a hierarchical data structure that consists of nodes connected by edges. It is a non-linear data structure unlike arrays, linked lists, stacks and queues. In linear data structures, the time required to search is proportional to the size of the data set whereas non-linear structures allow for quicker and easier access to data.

- A tree will not contain any loops or cycles.

# Examples of Use
- File systems for directory structure
- Family tree
- Organization tree
- DOM
- Chat bots
- Abstract syntax trees

## Common Terminology
**Parent node:** A node that is an immediate predecessor of any node.
**Child node:** A node that is an immediate successor of any node.
**Root node:** The node from which the tree originates. This node doesn't have a parent node.
**Leaf nodes:** Nodes that don't have any child nodes.
**Sibling nodes:** Nodes with the same parent.
**Ancestor nodes:** Nodes that are parents of parent nodes.
**Path:** Sequence of nodes and edges from one node to another.
**Distance:** Number of edges along the shortest path between two nodes.

**Properties of Nodes:**
- degree: total number of child node it has. (When talking of the degree of the tree is the maximum degree of a node in the tree. ie. the degree of the node with the highest degree)
- depth: the number of edges from the root to the desired node.
- height: the number of edges from the deepest leaf to that node.

## Implementation
The type of tree we're going to implement is a binary search tree.
A binary tree is a tree data structure in which each node has at most two children. They are referred to as left and right child.
In a binary **search** tree the value of each left node must be smaller than the parent node and the value of each right node must tbe greated than the parent node, whilst each node has at most 2 children.

These are the operations that will be implemented in this binary search tree:
- insertion: to add a node to the tree.
- search: to find a node given its value.
- depth-first-search (DFS) & breadth-first-search (BFS): to visit all nodes in the tree.
- deletion: to remove a node given its value.

**Binary search trees are used** in searching, sorting and to implement abstract data types such as lookup tables and priority queues.

```js

```