# Built-in Data Structures - Javascript
## Arrays
An array is a data structure than can hold a collection of values. These values can be of different data types: strings, booleans, numbers or objects.
- Arrays are resizeable and don't have to declare the size of an array when creating it.
- In JS arrays are zero-indexed and the insertion order is maintained.
- They are iterables and can be used with a **for-of loop**.

```js
//ie.
const array = [1, 'string', true, {key:'value'}];
```

### Basic Methods:
- push(): append element to the end of the array.
- pop(): remove last element of the array.
- shift(): remove first element of the array.
- unshift(): insert element to the start of the array.

### Other Important Methods:
- map()
- filter()
- reduce()
- concat()
- slice()
- splice()

### Big-O - Arrays
Insert/Remove from the end - **O(1)**
Insert/Remove from the beginning - **O(n)**
Accessing a value in an array - **O(1)** ie. array[25]
Searching a value in an array - **O(n)** ie. array.includes(2);

## Objects
An object is an unordered collection of key-value pairs. The key must either be a string or symbol data type whereas the value can be of any data type. To retrieve a valuem you can use the corresponding key. This can be achieved using the dot notation or bracket notation. (ie. Object.key or Object['key']).

- Objects are not iterable. You cannot use it with a **for-of loop**.

```js
//ie.
const object = {
  key: 'value',
  name: 'your name',
  age: 2,
  something: () => {};
};
```

### Methods
- keys()
- values()
- entries()

### Big-O - Objects
Insert/Remove/Access - **O(1)**
Search - = **O(n)**

## Sets
A set is a data strucutre that can hold a collection of values. The values however must be unique.
- Can contain a mix of different data types. (Strings, booleans, numbers or objects)
- Dynamically sized. No need to declare the size of a set before creating it.
- Sets do not maintain an insertion order.
- Iterable. It can be used with a **for-of loop**.

```js
const set = new Set([1,2,3,1]); // There will only be 3 values stored in the set because there can't be any duplicates.
```
### Sets vs Arrays
- Arrays can contain duplicate values.
- Insertion order is maintained in arrays.
- Searching and deleting an element in a set is faster compared to arrays.

### Methods
- add(val): add a value.
- delete(val): delete a value.
- has(val): check if value exists (search).
- size(): returns size of the set.
- clear(): clear the set.

## Maps
A map is an ordered collection of key-value pairs. Both keys and values can be of any data type.
- To retrieve a value, use the corresponding key.
- Maps are iterables. They can be used with a **for-of loop**.

```js
const map = new Map([['key', 'value'],['key2', 'value']])

for (const [key, value] of map) {
  console.log(`${key}: ${value}`);
}
```

### Maps vs Objects
- Maps are ordered and remember insertion order of keys.
- Keys in objects can only be of string or symbol type whereas in maps, the can be of any type.
- An object has a prototype and may contain a few default keys which may collide with your own keys.
- Objects are not iterables.
- Number of items in an object must be determined manually whereas it is readily available with the size property in a map.
- You can attach functionality to an object whereas maps can only be used to store data.

### Methods
- set(key, value): set a value to a key.
- has(key): check to see if key exists in map.
- size(): check the size of the map.